1. What is React ?

React is a Javascript library for building user interfaces, Particularly single page Applications where data chenges over time .

-> Jordan Walke , 2011
-> React Current version : React 18

How React Works?

-> React uses Component based Architecture, where UI divided into small reusable pieces called components.  
-> Each Component manages its own state and re-render UI based on state
-> React updates and renders only the necessary components when data changes

2. What are te Key features of React

-> JSX (Javascript Syntax Extension or XML) - write html like code within Javascript
-> Virtual DOM
-> One-Way Data Binding
-> Component Based Architecture

3. What is JSX

-> JSX stands for Javascript XML. It allows developers to write HTML elments directly within Javascript code.
-> JSX transpiled to Javascript using Babel

4. What is the Virtual DOM

-> The Virtual DOM is an memory representation of the actual DOM elements generated by React Components
-> When state of an object changes, React First Updates the Virtual DOM , It then compares the virtual DOM with a snapshot of the previos virtual (Diffing) and calculates theminimal number of changes required to update the actual DOM

5. What is Components ?

-> Componets are the Building blocks of a react Application

Types of Components
-> Functional Components
-> Class Components

6. What are props in React ?

-> Props short for properties are read only input passed to a React Component
-> They are used to pass data from one component to another , Typically from a parent componet to a child componet

Example :

function Greeting (props) {

return <h1> hello , {props.name}</h1>

}

Function App() {

    return (
        <>
        <Greeting name="Ajay" />
        <Greeting  name="Jeeva"/>


        </Greeting>
    )

}

7. What is state in React?

-> State is a built in Object , That store property values that belongs to the Component
-> when state object changes , the componet re-renders , reflecting the new state in the UI
-> State is Managed within the Component

Example :

import { useState } from 'react'

function Counter() {
const [count,setCount] = useState(0)

    return (
        <div>
          <p> You Clicked {count} times </p>
          <button onClick={ () => setCount(count + 1 )}>Click Me</button>
        </div>
    )

}

8.  What is the purpose of render() in React?

-> The render() method is part of class component in React, it return the react elements that describes what the ui should look like,
-> The render() method is called whenever the componets state or props change , ensuring the ui stays in sync with data

9. What are Hooks?

-> React hooks are functions that let you use state and other React features in functional components,
-> Hooks allow functional componets to manage state and side effects

Common Hooks
-> useState - Manages state in Functional Components
-> useEffect - Handles side effects like data fetching, subscriptions, or manually changing the DOM

10. What is useState ?

-> UseState is a React Hook that allows functional components to manage state ,
-> It returns an with two elements, The current state value and a function to update it. By calling the setter function , you can update the state , which triggers a re - render of the component with new state

example = const [count, setCount] = useState(0)

11. What is 'useEffect ' In React?

The 'useEffect' hook in React is used to perform side effects in functional Components

Operations :
-> Fetching Data, Manipulating the DOM , Setting up Subscriptions or timers
-> useEffect takes two arguments:  
 1.a function (side effect ) and 2. Optonal array of dependencies.

    1. function(side effect) :the side effect function runs after every render if the dependencies change,  if the dependency array is empty, its runs only  once After the inital render

    Example:

    useEffect( () => {
      console.log("Effect runs after every render")
      return () => {
         console.log("cleanup runs before the componet unmounts or before the effect reruns " )
      }
    }, [ dependencies])

12. What is the significance of Keys in React?

-> keys are used when rendering list of elements,

Example :

const items = ["Apple","Banana","chery"]

return(

<ul>

{

items.map((item,index) => (

  <li key={index}>{item}</li>
))

13. What are Controlled Components?

-> Controlled Components are form elements in the React
-> The form data is handles by the Component's state, and updates are made through React State Management

Example :

function ControlledForm() {

const [inputValue, setInputvalue] = useState("");

const handlechange = (e) => {
setInputvalue(e.target.value);
}

return <input type="text" value={inputvalue} onchange={handleChange} />

}

}

</ul>

)

14. What are Uncontrolled Componenents?

-> Uncontrolled Componenents store thier own state internally,
-> Allowing DOM to Control form elements data
-> They rel on 'refs' to access form values insted of React state

Example :

function UncontrolledForm() {

const inputRef = useRef(null);

const handleSubmit =(e) => {
e.preventDefault();
console.log(inputRef.current.value);
}

return (

<form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>

<input type="text" ref={inputref} />
<button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>

)

}



15. What is the Context API in React?

-> The Context API is a Feature in React that allows you  to share state accross Multiple Components without passing props down manually through every level  of the Components tree,
-> Its usesd for global state like -> Themes , Authentication, or Language settings  





















